Content:


robotchallenge
hardware
electronics (surveyor)
software + linux
sorting pucks
detecting opponent
strategy
and other...


RobotChallenge
The team was set up in September 2011. In the beginning we were just
thinking about which competition we should choose - our team had four
members and team leader so we have decided not to build robot for such
easy challenge. We have found that in Vienna there is a RobotChallenge
championship with many different disciplines. For example they have six
categories of Robot Sumo, traditional but very fast Line Follower, Air
Race for flying robots, Humanoid Sprint - the 2 meters dash, creative
category Freestyle and Puck Collect. We chose the last one - Puck
Collect. In this competition two robots play at the same time at the
play field of 2.5 m x 2.5 m and each represents one color - blue or red.
Robot starts at his home base (0.7m square at the corner of the field,
opposite to the opponent) and tries to find pucks of his color and bring
them back to his base. Whole game is played as round-Robin tournament.




Software
electronics + sw
Main computer board is based on SRV-1 Blackfin board manufactured by
Surveyor corporation. It is based on Analog Devices Blackfin BF537
processor, which runs at 500MHz. SRV-1 board is equipped with 32MB
SDRAM. All debugging is done via serial line over WiFi module Lantronix
Matchport. Camera module is connected to the main board, but it was not
used in final version of the robot.


It is possible to write program to run directly on robotâ€™s processor,
but direct development is too slow. Every change in code implies
reflashing of whole firmware via serial line, which takes several
minutes. Another approach was selected by our team. Blackfin processor
is capable to run lightweight Linux kernel. Custom build of uClinux 2009
distribution was selected. Linux gives many advantages. File storage is
implemented by default. It is only needed to configure kernel and tell
it, where is SD connected.

Puck sorting mechanism
The module is completely independent unit, but it can be managed from
the main computer. Module consist of TAOS TCS3200 color sensor, Atmega
8 microcontroller and servo-controlled flipper. Mechanical concept is
very simple. Pucks are never lifted from the groud. They are passively
moved to the center of the robot, as the robot moves forward. Then the
puck color is detected by TAOS sensor. Microcontroller decides correct
flipper position. Puck then freely continue to left or right part of the
robot.

TAOS TCS3200 sensor detects separately four color channels: red,
green, blue and white. Output of sensor is signal on freqency
corresponding to intensity of detected light. It can vary from
$0\,\mathrm{Hz}$ to approx. $500\, \mathrm{kHz}$. Since the frequency is
nearly zero, when there is no light, we cannot measure time between
fixed number of edges. It is possible to count raising edges in fixed
interval. Microcontroler has to generate 50Hz servo signal, hence we can
use the same timer for measuring sensor signal and for generating PWM.


\begin{figure}[!t]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=2.5in]{puck_blue}
\caption{Blue puck on the left and white playing field on the right}
\label{fig_sim}
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[!t]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=2.5in]{puck_red}
\caption{Red puck}
\label{fig_sim}
\end{figure}

